I'm introducing the concept of a release.
A release is a deployment release that has a
collection of tickets associated to it.
There is a release domain object, a ReleaseDAO that contains an entityManager,
and a ReleaseService.
There is a concept of scheduling a release.
So this consists of assigning existing tickets to a release and then setting
the status on each ticket in the release as completed.
So let's look at the scheduleRelease method on line 34.
Now this is a multistep process that needs to complete
as one logical unit or transaction.
And if any piece fails, the entire transaction should fail.
On lines 40 through 42, I'm creating new tickets.
I'm actually adding them to the database using the ticketDAO.
Here on line 45, I'm obtaining the release entity,
and on line 46, I'm associating all of the tickets to this release.
On line 49, I'm updating the ticket status on each ticket as completed.
Now I want all of this to occur as one logical unit,
and if any piece fails, I want everything to roll back.
So now let's take a look at the TrackZillaController.
And notice on the controller, I've added this new method called scheduleRelease,
and the PostMapping path is schedule.
So essentially this will invoke our scheduleRelease
method from our releaseService.
So the server is up and running and the application is deployed.
Let's navigate to Postman to test.
Notice I'm posting to this URL, and I'm sending in this body,
so sending in an ID of 1.
This is the list of tickets.
So let's invoke this by clicking Send.
So I see a 500 Internal Server Error.
So let's take a look at this error.
It says No EntityManager with actual transaction available for current thread.
This error will go away when we add the @Transactional annotation.
So let's go back and do that.
So I'm going to navigate to my ReleaseService.
I'm going to add on line 15 the @Transactional annotation.
And I'm going to start the server again.
Okay, the server is up and running.
Let's navigate back to Postman, and let's test this again.
And now we have a status of 200 OK.
Let's navigate to the H2 console.
And now let's look at what's in our release table.
Click Run.
And so we have four releases.
Remember, we were creating new tickets, and we're adding it to Release 1.
So let's look at our tickets.
We should see some tickets with a status of completed
because they are assigned to a release.
And so we see four tickets here with the status of Completed,
and they are assigned to a release.
And we can see that if we click on RELEASE_TICKETS here.
And, yes, we have the four tickets here.
So why did the error go away when we used the @Transactional annotation?
Spring provides a lot automatically out of the box when we use this annotation.
So next we'll discuss what's really going on behind the scenes when we use this annotation.